
TEXT UNDER TITLE
We all pay for our food and drink, but no-one pays for the air we breathe.  Does this explain why air quality is so variable?  This website displays live measurements of air pollution for many cities around our planet.



TEXT EXPLAINING COMPONENTS OF POLLUTION

PM2.5  Fine particulate matter (PM) sources include burning and vehicle emissions.  It is stays in the air for a long time, irritating eyes, nose and throat, causing coughing, sneezing and shortness of breath.  Long term effects include asthma, chronic bronchitis and heart disease.

PM10  Heavier particulate matter (PM) such as smoke, dust from roads and construction sites, irritating eyes and breathed deeply into lungs.  Primary effect on health is damage to lungs, heart and circulation.

03		Ground level ozone is created by chemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds (VOC).  Health problems include throat irritation, airway inflammation, reduced lung function and worsening asthma, bronchitis and emphysema.

NO2	    Nitrogen dioxide is generated by vehicle emissions.  It indicates the presence of other oxides of nitrogen (collectively described as NOX) and its reaction and inter-reactions can lead to the creation of nitrates, ozone and PM.

SO2	    Sulphur dioxide is naturally produced by volcanoes!  Very reactive and toxic, burning skin, damaging eyes, harming lungs and worsening asthma symptoms.  Other reactions lead to acid rain and sulphur compounds in PM pollution.

CO		Carbon monoxide is formed by an incomplete reaction within motor engines, or in any flame burning with reduced oxygen.   It reduces oxygen absorption by the lungs (causing headaches then unconsciousness and death in confined spaces) and strongly affects anyone with heart disease.

Vog	    Volcanic fog drifts downwind from active and dormant volcanoes.  Across landscapes such as the Hawaiian island chain the population are warned to stay indoors for a few days per year.

Smog	Smoky fog describes the fog across cities and battlefields when chemical pollutants mix with the water droplet suspension while certain atmospheric conditions (temperature inversion) last.

