We all buy our food and drink, but no-one buys air.  Some truly pay a far higher price with each breath.

2019  Second inquest into death of Ella Kissi-Debrah in London reveals reluctant action despite awareness, “There is momentum for change and it is fundamental that air pollution is brought down to within lawful limits.”

2017  New Delhi in India bans fireworks during Diwali to prevent a repeat of the "airpocalypse" the previous year caused by the extra smoke and chemicals.

2015  Chai Jing's self-funded “Under the Dome” documentary features a mother’s worries about raising her new-born daughter in the polluted air of a major Chinese city.

2008  Authorities admit air pollution will be a problem at the Beijing Olympics.  “Controlling only local sources in Beijing will not be sufficient to attain the air quality goal set for the Beijing Olympics. There is an urgent need for regional air quality management studies and new emission control strategies”

1992  Guangzhou is the first city in China to ban fireworks due to the air pollution they cause.

1984  The Bhopal disaster in India at Union Carbide’s pesticide plant exposed hundreds of thousands of people to forty tons of toxic methyl isocyanate.  Nearly four thousand died and the US company paid almost $500m in compensation.

1982  Godfrey Reggio’s “Koyaanisqatsi” documentary (without words, Philip Glass soundtrack only) juxtaposes images of nature, humanity and heavy industry.

1967  The US Air Quality Act is finally created, nearly twenty years after the Donora smog incident.

1956  UK Clean Air Act is created in response to the 1952 London smog incident.

1952  London smog event.  “We estimate about 12,000 excess deaths occurred from December 1952 through February 1953 because of acute and persisting effects of the 1952 London smog.”

1948  Donora smog in Pennsylvania, USA.  Nearly half the population of the small town were affected and twenty died from the smog of hydrogen fluoride, sulphur dioxide and other toxins.

1930  Sixty people died in the December smog covering the valley of factories lining the River Meuse in Belgium.  It "led to the first scientific proof for the potential of atmospheric pollution to cause deaths."  Belgium did not introduce air quality legislation until it was created by the EU.
